README.md, before:

Elastic Search Cluster on AWS using Terraform
=============

This project will create an elasticsearch cluster in AWS using multiple availability zones. It will communicate with it via private ip addresses. This requires a VPN to your AWS VPC or alternatively running terraform within your VPC.

## Requirements

* Terraform >= v0.4
* An ubuntu AWS AMI with Java and Elasticsearch, see [packer-elastic-search](https://github.com/nadnerb/packer-elastic-search)
* Elasticsearch IAM profile called elasticSearchNode with [EC2 permissions](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch-cloud-aws#recommended-ec2-permissions)

## Installation

* install [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) and add it to your PATH.
* clone this repo.

## Configuration

Create a configuration file such as `~/.aws/default.tfvars` which includes:

```
aws_access_key="<your aws access key>"
aws_secret_key="<your aws access secret>"
key_name="<your private key name>"
```

Modify the `variables.tf` file, replacing correct values for `aws_amis` for your region:

```
variable "aws_amis" {
  default = {
		ap-southeast-2 = "ami-xxxxxxx"
  }
}
```

Modify the `variables.tf` file, replacing correct values for `aws_vpcs` for your region etc:

```
variable "aws_vpcs" {
	default = {
		ap-southeast-2 = "vpc-xxxxxxx"
	}
}
```

These variables can be overriden when running terraform like so:

```
terraform dosomethingcool -var 'aws_vpcs.ap-southeast-2=foozie'
```

The variables.tf terraform file can be further modified, for example it defaults to `ap-southeast-2` for the AWS region.

## Using Terraform

Execute the plan to see if everything works as expected.

```
terraform plan -var-file '~/.aws/default.tfvars'
```

If all looks good, lets build our infrastructure!

```
terraform apply -var-file '~/.aws/default.tfvars'
```

### Multiple security groups

A security group is created using terraform that opens up Elasticsearch and ssh ports. We can also add extra pre-existing security groups to our Elasticsearch instances like so:

```
terraform destroy -var-file '~/.aws/default.tfvars' -var 'additional_security_groups=sg-xxxx, sg-yyyy'
```

## Known issues

* Terraform is not destroying resources correctly which has been made even worse by splitting everything into modules. Currently you need to manually destroy your ec2 instances by hand :( (see [github issue](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/1472)). I am currently not using the subnet module which just means I have to destroy the environment twice.
* I have noticed that in using a private VPC the `aws_instance` uses `aws_security_group.elastic.id` but in the default VPC it seems to require `aws_security_group.elastic.name`. This may have been resolved in v0.4.x of terraform.

Commit message:

manually provide private hosted zone :(

README.md, after:

Elastic Search Cluster on AWS using Terraform
=============

This project will create an elasticsearch cluster in AWS using multiple availability zones. It will communicate with it via private ip addresses. This requires a VPN to your AWS VPC or alternatively running terraform within your VPC.

## Requirements

* Terraform >= v0.4
* An ubuntu AWS AMI with Java and Elasticsearch, see [packer-elastic-search](https://github.com/nadnerb/packer-elastic-search)
* Elasticsearch IAM profile called elasticSearchNode with [EC2 permissions](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch-cloud-aws#recommended-ec2-permissions)

## Installation

* install [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) and add it to your PATH.
* clone this repo.

## Configuration

Create a configuration file such as `~/.aws/default.tfvars` which includes:

```
aws_access_key="<your aws access key>"
aws_secret_key="<your aws access secret>"
key_name="<your private key name>"
hosted_zone_id="<your private private hosted zone>"
```

Note above the private hosted zone id is currently required as terraform cannot create private hosted zones. Logstash is only accessible internally this is an issue when creating certificates using dns.

Modify the `variables.tf` file, replacing correct values for `aws_amis` for your region:

```
variable "aws_amis" {
  default = {
		ap-southeast-2 = "ami-xxxxxxx"
  }
}
```

Modify the `variables.tf` file, replacing correct values for `aws_vpcs` for your region etc:

```
variable "aws_vpcs" {
	default = {
		ap-southeast-2 = "vpc-xxxxxxx"
	}
}
```

These variables can be overriden when running terraform like so:

```
terraform dosomethingcool -var 'aws_vpcs.ap-southeast-2=foozie'
```

The variables.tf terraform file can be further modified, for example it defaults to `ap-southeast-2` for the AWS region.

## Using Terraform

Execute the plan to see if everything works as expected.

```
terraform plan -var-file '~/.aws/default.tfvars'
```

If all looks good, lets build our infrastructure!

```
terraform apply -var-file '~/.aws/default.tfvars'
```

### Multiple security groups

A security group is created using terraform that opens up Elasticsearch and ssh ports. We can also add extra pre-existing security groups to our Elasticsearch instances like so:

```
terraform destroy -var-file '~/.aws/default.tfvars' -var 'additional_security_groups=sg-xxxx, sg-yyyy'
```

## Known issues

* Private hosted zone [issue](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/1503)
* Terraform is not destroying resources correctly which has been made even worse by splitting everything into modules. Currently you need to manually destroy your ec2 instances by hand :( (see [github issue](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/1472)). I am currently not using the subnet module which just means I have to destroy the environment twice.
* I have noticed that in using a private VPC the `aws_instance` uses `aws_security_group.elastic.id` but in the default VPC it seems to require `aws_security_group.elastic.name`. This may have been resolved in v0.4.x of terraform.
